---
title:     "Xfce 4.2.0 Changelog"
---

## General

* Minimum required GTK version is 2.2 (2.4 is recommended).
* Overall usability improvements
* Improved Xinerama support.
* Improved support for Cygwin.
* Support for partial struts in xfwm4, xftaskbar4 and xfce4-panel.
* Freedesktop specifications compliance for menu and icons themes.
* New file locations based on the Freedesktop.org <a href="https://freedesktop.org/wiki/Standards/basedir-spec">XDG Basedir Specification</a> (all Xfce settings are now stored under the <tt>~/.config/xfce4/</tt> directory).
* New and updated translations.
* Support for <i>kiosk mode</i>, in which the allowed user actions can be restricted in xfce4-session, xfce4-panel, and xfdesktop (see included doc/README.Kiosk files).

## Window Manager _(xfwm4)_

* Native multiscreen support (manage all screens from a single window manager process).
* Enhanced support for Xinerama.
* Support for more hints from the Freedesktop.org Extended Window Manager Hints specification version 1.3 and above.
* Supports the <i>Show Desktop</i> protocol.
* Supports KDE context help.
* Support KDE system tray icons.
* Window menu features an <i>Always on top</i> option.
* Graphical keyboard shorcuts editor included in the xfwm settings manager dialog.
* Xfwm4 now has his own optional compositing manager (a manager for the new X Composite extension present in X.org 6.8). This adds a dropshadow to all windows and supports setting window transparency by applications themselves or by using a tool like transset.
* Improved focus management.
* Support for image composition with PNG images layered above the pixmap frame, allowing for gradients or other color effects.
* Completely new default look. Several new themes added.
* Change location of themes to be more in line with gtk, metacity, and others.
* Application's icon and name shown in the <i>Alt+Tab</i> dialog.

## Desktop Manager _(xfdesktop)_

* Gradient support for background color.
* Brightness adjustment for the backdrop.
* Real multiscreen and Xinerama support.
* Support for icons in window list and applications menu.
* Ability to disable/enable icons in each menu, or the menus entirely.
* Graphical menu editor with DnD support from xfce4-appfinder and .desktop files from Rox, Konqueror, Nautilus, Xffm, etc.
* Add &quot;-menu&quot;, &quot;-windowlist&quot; and &quot;-reload&quot; options for &quot;xfdesktop&quot;, to be used in keybindings.
* Support for 'system' menu, which lists all apps that install <tt>*.desktop</tt> files according to the Freedesktop.org Menu Spec.
* Panel plugin to show the menu (yes, it's a <i>Start button</i>).
* Use a menu cache to improve performance after it has been generated once.
* Kiosk mode support.

## Panel _(xfce4-panel)_

* New look with smaller move handles and new default icons.
* Uses global icon theme setting (in user interface dialog).
* Improved resizing and moving behaviour; panel is forced to be on the edges of the screen.
* The panel is now a dock type window, which means it will always be on top.
* Improved focus handling; clicking on the panel will not remove the focus from the currently active window.
* There can be only one panel per X screen. Multihead supported when environment is set up properly (DISPLAY variable).
* Support for kiosk mode.
* Unload unused plugins and dynamically update plugin list. Use dialog to add new panel items, instead of a submenu.
* Mail checker now supports mbox, Maildir and POP3.
* Support for dragging applications from xfce4-appfinder to a launcher properties dialog.
* Transparency when the X Composite extension is enabled and the window manager supports it.
* Backward compatibility with the Xfce Goodies plugins available from <a href="http://xfce-goodies.berlios.de/">http://xfce-goodies.berlios.de/</a>.

## New Session Manager _(xfce4-session)_

* New module in 4.2: manage applications on Xfce startup.
* Themeable splash screen engines.
* System shutdown/reboot support using the <i>sudo</i> mechanism.
* Major performance improvements over the previous snapshot versions.
* GNOME/KDE compatibility.
* Native multihead support (Xinerama and multiscreen).
* Doesn't rely on smproxy (or any rewrite like gnome-smproxy), but provides (partial) session management, even for non-SM or X11R5-SM aware apps.
* Kiosk mode support.

## Settings Manager _(xfce-mcs-manager)_

* New dialog layout: buttons have a label below icon and are arranged in multiple columns.
* Font rendering setup dialog.
* Merged Desktop Workspaces and Workspace Margins dialogs.
* Display resolution and gamma correction dialog.
* API version was bumped (plugins linked against the old version won't work until you recompile them).
* Customizable icons.

## File Manager _(xffm)_

* Two independent panes (eliminated confusing behaviour from 4.0.x).
* Completely reworked toolbars and menus.
* Better archiving support (creating tar/tar.gz/tar.bz2 archives).
* Improved trash handling with support for GNOME and KDE trash bins.
* Use global icon theme (user interface dialog).
* Allow user customization of icon themes.
* Improved Samba support (allow mount/unmount, double click, monitor downloads).
* Keeps track of recently and frequently opened files.
* Applications branch is now a toolbar (only available if compiled with &quot;--enable-panel&quot;).
* Ability to change file name, group, owner and mode allowed from inline row editing.
* Dynamic sidebar.
* Improved Asian language support.
* Pastelink option added (i.e., create symlinks to pasteboard elements).
* Recursive scrambling of directories (only available if compiled with &quot;--enable-scrambledir&quot;).
* Mount/unmount of fstab points allowed from outside fstab branch (by popup menu).
* Mouse selection behaviour configurable by user.
* Verbose/nonverbose diagnostics configurable by user.
* Renaming of bookmark elements allowed.
* Noticeable performance improvements under the hood.
* Search window called directly by invoking xfglob4.
* Files opened directly with associated mimetype application if invoked with &quot;xffm filename&quot; (path to filename can be absolute, relative or relative to homedir).

## Printing Helper _(xfprint)_

* Completely rewritten to use a pluggable printing backend system.
* Use either CUPS, BSD-LPR, or a file as the print destination; printers are retrieved from the chosen printing system (no need to add printers to the list manually).

## GTK theme engine _(gtk-xfce-engine-2)_

* Completely new default theme.
* Improved drawing of control elements to enhance usability.

## Utilities _(xfce-utils)_

* Configurable taskbar width and height.
* Taskbar has <i>always group tasks</i> option.
* Taskbar has selectable left/center/right alignment and variable width.
* Taskbar has right-click action menu.
* Call 'xfrun4 filename' to get an 'Open with...' dialog.
* Taskbar has option to show only icons.
* About dialog can be compiled with extra vendor information.
* Run dialog now properly checks if command fails.
* Updated user guide.
* Small changes to startup script and xfhelp4 script.

## Volume Control _(xfce4-mixer)_

* Complete rewrite of the mixer with settings manager dialog.
* Mixer profiles.
* Support for ALSA, OSS and Sun audio.

## Calendar and Appointments _(xfcalendar)_

* First day of the week option removed (managed through the <i>locale</i> settings in gtk 2.4 and above).

## New Application Finder _(xfce4-appfinder)_

* New module in Xfce 4.2: find (and run) applications.
* Alternative interface to the application menu.

## Icon Box _(xfce4-iconbox)_

* Make iconbox a dock type window (always on top), like the panel.
* Make the iconbox transparency configurable when using the X Composite extension.

## Icon Theme _(xfce4-icon-theme)_

* New module in Xfce 4.2: Freedesktop.org icon theme with special icons for Xfce; it includes both PNG and SVG icons.

## Toys _(xfce4-toys)_

* Updated tips.
