---
title:     "Xfce 4.2.1 Changelog"
---

## General

* Don't use <tt>G_INLINE_FUNC</tt> in the source code, which fixes several weird build errors.

## Libraries _(lib*)_

* Libxfce4util: Fix a problem with NFS mounted home directories in Solaris (bug #724)

## Window Manager _(xfwm4)_

* Speed improvement with GLX applications
* Fix Alt-Tab not focusing a window alone on a desktop (bug #700)
* Kbd shortcuts don't work when caps lock is enabled (bug #689)
* Window not showing when compositor is enabled (bug #694)
* Documentation on command line option to enable/disable xfwm4 compositor (bug #611)
* Improve caching of frame elements
* Fix default theme for dark gtk themes (such as Xfce-dusk)
* Various focusing issues fixed
* Optimizations of move/resize operations (bug #761)
* Auto maximize windows larger that screen size.
* Be more tolerant with apps manipulating frameless windows.
* Focus window on top of stack on workspace switch if no other window is eligible for focus.
* Fix uninitialized default layer for fullscreen legacy apps.
* Updated translations : he, ja, pt_br, zh_CN, fi, lt, ko

## Desktop Manager _(xfdesktop)_

* Fix handling of quoted commands in the desktop menu (bug #776)
* Fix handling of .desktop files with no Categories list (bug #776)
* Add &quot;edit menu&quot; button to panel plugin prefs (bug #554), and ability to  change the button tooltip (bug #764)
* Fix broken panel plugin behavior when trying to track the default desktop menu. there's a new option to either follow the default menu, or use a static menu file (bug #778)
* Fix bug where xfdesktop would crash if the windowlist was opened, then a window was destroyed, and then that window was selected from the list (bug #672)
* Fix &quot;unique&quot; attribute of system menu inclusion

## Panel _(xfce4-panel)_

* Save configuration file only on exit
* Fix double click on inactive item in dialog (bug #739)
* 64bit fix
* Clock applet tweak (bug #716, hopefully)

## Settings Manager _(xfce-mcs-manager)_

* Fix RedHat shutdown code (bug #703)

## File Manager _(xffm)_

* Ensure posix.1-1996 compatibility (bug #695)
* Fix for crash on opening fstab on solaris (bug #726)
* Avoid a showstopper gtk-2.4 bug (scaling gdkpixbufs from svg images). This is bugzilla bug #751 report. Not all gtk showstopper bugs from svg can be avoided. In particular with office/mobile_phone_01.svg. This file will also crash rox
* Allow relative paths for icon resolution (xfce4-modules)
* Validate utf error messages (bug #737)
* Don't quote paths that are already quoted.
* Change smb-share icon to proper icon
* Fix borked overwrite warning dialog message
* Bug fixes for keyboardnavigation to close bug #795
* Separate remove and paste button in toolbar to avoid confusing the remove confirmation dialog with the overwrite confirmation dialog
* Fix translation problems in several languages, including brazilian-portuguese
* Fill in some missing spanish translation strings
* Fix for bug #524 (crashing xffm by mounting cdrom and trying to open it in the other treeview before mount is complete)

## Printing Helper _(xfprint)_

* Remove FILE backend and add a print-to-file entry in the printing dialog
* Multiple bugfixes (bug #816, bug #817, bug #818, bug #820) in the BSD-LPR backend (thanks to Jason Keltz for pointing them out)

## GTK theme engine _(gtk-xfce-engine-2)_

* Add new dark theme &quot;Xfce-dusk&quot; contributed by James Golden
* Improve default theme, enhance contrasts.
* Rework progress bar drawing.

## Calendar and Appointments _(xfcalendar)_

* Remembering of its position (bug #691 and  bug #789)
* Warning box for preventing users to loose their changes (bug #714 and bug #738)
* Possibility to show/hide xfcalendar in taskbar, pager and systray (bug #719)
* possibility to choose to either show or hide the calendar window when xfcalendar is launched (it remembered before the status when leaving)
